readme.md, before:

\\# Who Wants to Be a Times table Millionaire Responsive Website/Game

![Website Mock Up](/assets/readme/mockup.jpg)


\\# Purpose

This project is a website aimed at creating a fun and engaging 'Who
Wants to Be a Millionaire' style game for children to teach them their
three times table called \[Who Wants to Be a Times Table
Millionaire\]\](
\*\*\<[[https://mattjones444.github.io/Code-Institute/]{.underline}](https://mattjones444.github.io/Code-Institute/)\>index.html\*\*).

The core purposes of the website:

\\- introduce the three times table to children.

\\- teach children the multiplication facts from the three times table..

\\- Build the children's confidence in learning the three times table.

\\- Make learning the three times table fun and engaging for children

The website is built using HTML and CSS as a Milestone Project #2 for
the Code Institute\'s Full Stack Developer course.

[\[The live website is available
here\](https://mattjones444.github.io/Milestone-Project-2/)]{.mark}

\\\_\\\_\\\_

\\# UX Design

\\## User stories

\\### As a \\\*\\\*first time user\\\*\\\*

\\- I want to easily understand the main purpose of the site and learn
more about the product and how to play the game.

\\- I want to be able to easily navigate and find content.

\\- [I want to find ways to join the community and follow the company on
different social media.]{.mark}

\\- I want to enjoy playing the game.

\\### As a \\\*\\\*returning\\\*\\\* and a \\\*\\\*frequent user\\\*\\\*

\\- I want to play the game and beat my score.

\\- [I want to contact the organisation to request additional
information.]{.mark}

\\- [I want to join the community.]{.mark}

\\- I want to access the product resource

\\### All users want to be able to access and comfortably view the
website on mobile devices.

\\\_\\\_\\\_

\\## Structure

\\### Home Page

\\- Uses a clear, recognisable image to introduce the user to the theme
of the game

\\- Encourages users to play the game by issuing a challenge to them.

\\- Grabs the user\'s attention and grips it with bold design

\#### User Goal:

\- Understand the main purpose of the website/game.

\- Preview the next section of the game.

\- Easily navigate and interact with the website.

\#### Website Goal:

\- Visually explain the purpose of the website and make links to
concepts users have seen in other formats.

\- Interest and engage the user.

\- Initiate future engagement by challenging the user to complete the
game.

\\### Rules Page

\\- Outlines the key function of the game and rules..

\\- Maintains the overall styling and theme of the game set in the
homepage.

\\- Allows them to preview a resource by entering their contact details.

\#### User Goal:

\- Understand the rules of the game and how the game functions.

\#### Website Goal:

\- Ensures clients are clear on the rules of the game before they start.

\- Gain the users trust and increases the credibility of the product.

\- Convince the user to move forward to play the game.

\\### Game Screen

\\- Allows users to interact with the game.

\\- Users can input their answers

\\- Users can receive feedback on their answers and learn the times
table.

\\- Users can see their final score, based on their input and aim to
beat it in the next game.

\#### User Goal:

\- Interact with the game.

\- Gain feedback on their performance.

\- See their overall score

\- Learn the times table

\#### Website Goal:

\- Engage users with the game and ensure they have the motivation to
return and beat their score.

[\\## Wireframes]{.mark}

\\### \\\*\\\*Home\\\*\\\*

\![Home-wireframe (full
size)\](/assets/readme/homepage-browser.png)

\![Home-wireframe (full
size)\](/assets/readme/homepage-mobile.png)

\\### \\\*\\\*Rules\\\*\\\*

\![Success Stories wireframe (full
size)\](/assets/readme/rules-browser.png)

\![Success Stories wireframe (full
size)\](/assets/readme/rules-mobile.png)

\\### \\\*\\\*Game Screen\\\*\\\*

\![Signup-wireframe (full
size)\](/assets/readme/game-browser.png)
(/assets/readme/game-mobile.png)

\\\_\\\_\\\_

\\## Design

As Who Wants to be a Times table Millionaire is a product and service,
the web-page design shapes future brand recognition and styling. The
project\'s design springs from the ethos and values of Who Wants to be a
Millionaire, it is professional, engaging and fun, aiming to give
players the feeling that they will enjoy a new twist on a format that is
familiar to them. It also seeks to reassure the player that there is a
learning element to the game.

\\### Colour Scheme

\![Palette\](/assets/readme/colour-palette.png)

The conventional, modern, solid colour palette choice serves to engender
trust, academia and professionalism, whilst maintaining a modern feel.

\\#### \\\*\\\*Dark, Navy Blue\\\*\\\*

represent a strong background color to contrast with the other elements
on the page.

\\#### \\\*\\\*Double Spanish White\\\*\\\*

Golden color used for the badge and hover elements, gives the user the
impression of a quality product.

\\#### \\\*\\\*Sea Grape\\\*\\\*

Give the user the shadow/auror effect around the badge, creating depth
on the homescreen.

\\#### \\\*\\\*Alice Blue\\\*\\\*

Used for fonts, designed to contrast against the other darker colours.

[\\### Typography]{.mark}

\[Lato\](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Lato) was chosen for body
text as it is light and easy to read.

\\### Images

The images in this project were sourced from
\[Google.com\]\]([[https://www.google.co.uk]{.underline}](https://www.google.co.uk))
using a search that included images free to use with no rights
restrictions. They were specifically selected to correlate with the main
website colour palette and increase the aesthetic impact of the design.

\\### Visual Effects

\\#### Shadows

As the Home Page consists of multiple colourful overlapping blocks, it
was important to add volume and make the content easier to perceive so
the viewer\'s eye doesn\'t have to focus on understanding spatial
relationships between elements, which might be daunting. However, to
provide better performance on mobile devices, it was implemented only
for screens larger than 992px.

\\#### Logo and Page Headings Gradient

The product has a basic logo at the moment, which still needs further
work as it was made purely for the purposes of this project. Work needs
to be done to make it stand out further.

\\#### Buttons

Each button offers a similar growing effect described above combined
with a change of its background colour: it is black by default, and it
turns Double Spanish White when hovered over with a mouse. To provide
better performance on mobile devices, it was implemented only for
screens larger than 978px.

\\#### Navbar Hover effect

The navbar includes a hover-over effect to make the experience more
interactive and navigation more intuitive. When the user engages with
the link or hovers over the link, its background colour changes to Alice
Blue to subtly highlight the item without compromising legibility.

\\\_\\\_\\\_

\\# Features

\\## Existing Features

\\- \\\*\\\*Navigation bar\\\*\\\*

\![navbar\](/assets/readme/navbar.png)

Each page has a full responsive navigation bar at the top. It includes
the [Logo]{.mark} (which is a link to the Home page) and the links to
Home and game pages. It retains an identical layout throughout the
website across all devices to ensure simple and intuitive navigation.
The Navbar will allow the user to reach any section of the website from
any point on the website without unnecessary steps and using browser
navigation buttons.

For mobile devices, it transforms into a compact \"hamburger menu\".
This dropdown menu features the same items, displayed as a column on a
semi-transparent background.

\\- \\\*\\\*Hero image\\\*\\\*

\![heroimage\](/assets/readme/heroimage.png)

This section is the first thing the user sees opening each page, it is
an eye-catching image for aesthetical stimulation, which also helps to
deliver the page\'s semantics as visual associations are commonly very
strong. On the Home page, the image gives the use a familiar image to
hook into, which uses their prior knowledge of the TV show to give them
context about how the game might function.

\\- \\\*\\\*Why Choose Us section\\\*\\\*

\![whychooseus\](/assets/readme/whychooseus.png)

The ethos section will introduce the user to the concept of Pocket
Tutor, as it is slightly different to the usual way tutoring works. The
user will be introduced to the concept, given a little preview of the
benefits of signing up to Pocket Tutor and invited to learn more by
accessing the sign up page, which will book a call with the Sales Team.

\\- \\\*\\\*Benefits of Online Tutoring section\\\*\\\*

\![onlinebenefits\](/assets/readme/benefitsofonline.png)

Often, clients will choose in-person tutoring over online tutoring, this
section explains the benefits of choosing online tutoring. This was
deliberately presented as a video, as it reassures clients that there is
a human aspect to the service. By one of the tutors presenting the
benefits, potential clients are also reassured that the people working
with their children have the correct experience.

\\-

\\\*\\\*Our Events\\\*\\\*

\![events\](/assets/readme/ourevents.png)

This section is designed to promote the events that clients can attend,
as part of their subscription, to support their children with enjoying
learning. The events ensure that users have a reason to return to the
site, in order to check the dates of events running, and to sign up to
them. It gives the user increased value for their subscription and helps
to widen the potential base of clients as some events will periodically
be made free to attend.

\\- \\\*\\\*Footer\\\*\\\*

\![footer\](/assets/readme/footer.png)

The Footer contains the links to the social media and allows the user to
continue engagement with the company on various platforms.

\\- \\\*\\\*Success Stories page\\\*\\\*

\![successstories\](/assets/readme/successstories.png)

This page contains a more in-depth explanation of the features of the
subscription and sets out the products that clients will have access to.
It also reiterates the concept of choosing online, rather than in-person
tutoring and how this will benefit their family life. It also features
some success stories from current users who have been supported by
Pocket Tutor. This has been included to promote the services provide and
to provide 'real-life' accounts of how the product has helped their
children. In order to create a database of potential clients, users can
sign up to receive a free resource at the bottom of the page. This
serves as a way increase subscriptions to the site and also for users to
see an example of the resources they would have access to.

[\\- \\\*\\\*Signup page\\\*\\\*]{.mark}

\![signup\](/assets/readme/contactus.png)

This page will allow the user to sign up to Pocket Tutor and subscribe
to the service/product. The page contains the form, where the user will
be asked to submit their full name and email address and to give a brief
explanation of the areas that their child needs support with.

\\## Responsive layout

The site is designed to be flexible, fluid, responsive and aesthetically
enjoyable on all screen sizes and resolutions starting from 378px. To
ensure better performance on mobile devices, mobile versions (smaller in
size with different aspect ratios) most of the hero images are in a
smaller image format. It was considered necessary because the images
play a significant role in delivering the semantics of the website and
providing the intended user experience.

\![Responsiveness testing results:\]
\[Excel\](/assets/readme/responsivenesstesting.xlsx), \[Excel\]\]

\\## Future Considerations

Additional pages will need to be created to house the code to allow
users to play the same game, based on other times tables.

Adaptions will need to be made to the code so that the random numbers
generated for the answer options is not replicated in the same question.

Moving forward, it would improve the user experience if the levels of
the game were organised in a hierarchical manner, so that the user would
need to attain a certain score before the next level (times table) was
unlocked. This would increase the challenge and give users even more
reason to return to the game.

\\\_\\\_\\\_

\\# Technologies

\\- HTML to accomplish the structure of the website.

\\- CSS to style the website.

\\- \[Codeanywhere\]( https://app.codeanywhere.com/) IDE to develop the
website.

\\- \[GitHub\](https://GitHub.com/) to host the source code and GitHub
Pages to deploy and host the live site.

\\- Git to provide version control (to commit and push code to the
repository).

\\- \[FontAwesome\](https://fontawesome.com/) v5.15.1 Icons.

\\- \[Google Fonts\](https://fonts.google.com/) for typography.

\\- \[Google Chrome Dev
Tools\](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools) for
debugging, inspecting pages\' elements and testing layout.

\\- \[TinyJPG\](https://tinyjpg.com/) to optimise images for readme.

\\- \[Favicon.cc\](https://www.favicon.cc/) to create the website
favicon.

\\- \[Coolors\](https://coolors.co/image-picker) to source colour
palette from image.

\\- \[Balsamiq\](https://balsamiq.com/wireframes/) to design wireframes.

\\- \[Techsini\](https://tecnisih.com) to create the Mockup image in
this README.

\\- Google Chrome\'s
\[Lighthouse\](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse) to
assess accessibility.

\\- \[Screen Reader for Google
Chrome\](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/screen-reader-for-google/nddfhonnmhcldcbmhbdldfpkbfpgjoeh/related?hl=en)
to assess screen-reader accessibility.

\\- Toptal
\[Colorfilter\](https://www.toptal.com/designers/colorfilter/) to assess
colour-blind accessibility.

\\- \[W3C HTML Markup Validator\](https://validator.w3.org/) to validate
HTML code.

\\- \[W3C Jigsaw CSS Validator\](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/)
to validate CSS code.

\\- Code Institute\'s Gitpod Template to generate the workspace for the
project.

\\\_\\\_\\\_

\\# Testing

\\## User Story Testing

\![User Testing results:\] \[Excel\](/assets/readme/usertesting.xlsx),
\[Excel\]\]

\\## Feature Testing

All Features were tested manually, find the results below.

The website was tested in three browsers: Chrome, Firefox and Safari on
Desktops, tablets and multiple mobile devices (macOS and Android).

\![Features\\\_testing\](/assets/readme/milestoneonetesting.png)

\![Features Testing results:\]
\[Excel\](/assets/readme/Milestoneonetesting.xlsx), \[Excel\]\]

\\## Automated Testing

1\\. \\\*\\\*\[W3 Markup Validation\](https://validator.w3.org/) - HTML
Validation\\\*\\\*

All pages were run through HTML Validator. No errors were detected.

2\\. \\\*\\\*\[W3 Jigsaw\](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/) - CSS
Validation\\\*\\\*

CSS Stylesheet was run through CSS Validator. No errors were detected.

3\\. \\\*\\\*\[Google
Lighthouse\](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse)\\\*\\\*

\\\*\\\*Home Page\\\*\\\*

Mobile

\![Mobile Home\](/assets/readme/home-mobile.png)

Desktop

\![Desktop Home\](/assets/readme/home-desktop.png)

\\\*\\\*Success Stories Page\\\*\\\*

Mobile

\![Mobile Success Stories\](/assets/readme/success-stories-mobile.png)

Desktop

\![Desktop Success Stories\](/assets/readme/success-stories-desktop.png)

\\\*\\\*Signup Page\\\*\\\*

Mobile

\![Mobile Signup\](/assets/readme/signup-mobile.png)

Desktop

\![Desktop Signup\](/assets/readme/success-stories-desktop.png)

\\## Accessibility Testing

\\### Screen Reader for Goggle Chrome

The website was tested with \[Screen Reader for Goggle
Chrome\](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/screen-reader/kgejglhpjiefppelpmljglcjbhoiplfn?hl=en).
No issues arose.

\\### Toptal Colorfilter

The website was tested with Toptal
\[Colorfilter\](https://www.toptal.com/designers/colorfilter/) to make
sure it is accessible for colour-blind users. No accessibility issues
were detected.

\[Result preview
1\](https://www.toptal.com/designers/colorfilter?orig_uri=https://mattjones444.github.io/Code-Institute/&process_type=protan)

\[Result preview
2\](https://www.toptal.com/designers/colorfilter?orig_uri=https://mattjones444.github.io/Code-Institute/success-stories.html&process_type=protan)

\[Result preview
3\](https://www.toptal.com/designers/colorfilter?orig_uri=https://mattjones444.github.io/Code-Institute/signup.html&process_type=protan)

\\\_\\\_\\\_

\\# Deployment

This project was hosted on Github. A repository was created by:

1\\. Navigate to Github.com and login.

2\\. On the left-hand sidebar, click the \'New\' button.

3\\. Name the repository and click on the \'Create Repository\' button.

During the creation of the project, the \'git add .\', \'git commit
-m\', \'git push\' and \'git pull\' commands were used.

This project was deployed to GitHub pages. The steps to deploy are as
follows:

1\\. Log into GitHub.

2\\. Select \`codeinstitute\` from the list of repositories.

3\\. Select \`Settings\` From the Repositories sub-headings.

4\\. In the left side menu select \`Pages\`.

5\\. Click on the link labelled \'Visit Site\' to go to the live
deployed page.

Due to issues with Codeanywhere during the creation of this project, I decided to move to use Replit as the cloud IDE. Due to this, the project was originally linked to a separate Github repo, which can be found at https://github.com/Mattjones444/TimesTablesTest.git

\\\_\\\_\\\_

\\# Credits

\\## Media

\\- all images were sourced from Canva.com

\\- favicon.ico was created by me.

\\## Code

\\- Implementation of Flexbox and Grid was assisted by \[CSS
Tricks\](https://css-tricks.com).

\\- Code snippet for the links hover effect is taken from \[CSS
Tricks\](https://css-tricks.com/css-link-hover-effects/) and modified.

\\- Code snippet for the \'Why Choose Us\' section was inspired by code
from CodeInsitute and modified.

\\- Guidance on HTML attributes and common conventions were obtained
from \[W3Schools\](https://www.w3schools.com/) and \[Mozilla\'s Web
Documentation\](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/).

\\- Understanding of shadows was obtained from
\[W3Schools\](https://www.w3schools.com/).

\\## Acknowledgements

I would like to thank my mentor, Ronan McClelland, for his guidance and
invaluable advice and sense of humour.

Commit message:

This commit updates the image files in the first part of the readme

readme.md, after:

\\# Who Wants to Be a Times table Millionaire Responsive Website/Game

![Website Mock Up](/assets/readme/mockup.jpg)


\\# Purpose

This project is a website aimed at creating a fun and engaging 'Who
Wants to Be a Millionaire' style game for children to teach them their
three times table called [Who Wants to Be a Times Table
Millionaire](
\*\*\<[[https://mattjones444.github.io/Code-Institute/]{.underline}](https://mattjones444.github.io/Code-Institute/)\>index.html\*\*).

The core purposes of the website:

\\- introduce the three times table to children.

\\- teach children the multiplication facts from the three times table..

\\- Build the children's confidence in learning the three times table.

\\- Make learning the three times table fun and engaging for children

The website is built using HTML and CSS as a Milestone Project #2 for
the Code Institute\'s Full Stack Developer course.

[The live website is available
here](https://mattjones444.github.io/Milestone-Project-2/)

\\\_\\\_\\\_

\\# UX Design

\\## User stories

\\### As a \\\*\\\*first time user\\\*\\\*

\\- I want to easily understand the main purpose of the site and learn
more about the product and how to play the game.

\\- I want to be able to easily navigate and find content.

\\- I want to find ways to join the community and follow the company on
different social media.

\\- I want to enjoy playing the game.

\\### As a \\\*\\\*returning\\\*\\\* and a \\\*\\\*frequent user\\\*\\\*

\\- I want to play the game and beat my score.

\\- I want to contact the organisation to request additional
information.

\\- I want to join the community.

\\- I want to access the product resource

\\### All users want to be able to access and comfortably view the
website on mobile devices.

\\\_\\\_\\\_

\\## Structure

\\### Home Page

\\- Uses a clear, recognisable image to introduce the user to the theme
of the game

\\- Encourages users to play the game by issuing a challenge to them.

\\- Grabs the user\'s attention and grips it with bold design

\#### User Goal:

\- Understand the main purpose of the website/game.

\- Preview the next section of the game.

\- Easily navigate and interact with the website.

\#### Website Goal:

\- Visually explain the purpose of the website and make links to
concepts users have seen in other formats.

\- Interest and engage the user.

\- Initiate future engagement by challenging the user to complete the
game.

\\### Rules Page

\\- Outlines the key function of the game and rules..

\\- Maintains the overall styling and theme of the game set in the
homepage.

\\- Allows them to preview a resource by entering their contact details.

\#### User Goal:

\- Understand the rules of the game and how the game functions.

\#### Website Goal:

\- Ensures clients are clear on the rules of the game before they start.

\- Gain the users trust and increases the credibility of the product.

\- Convince the user to move forward to play the game.

\\### Game Screen

\\- Allows users to interact with the game.

\\- Users can input their answers

\\- Users can receive feedback on their answers and learn the times
table.

\\- Users can see their final score, based on their input and aim to
beat it in the next game.

\#### User Goal:

\- Interact with the game.

\- Gain feedback on their performance.

\- See their overall score

\- Learn the times table

\#### Website Goal:

\- Engage users with the game and ensure they have the motivation to
return and beat their score.

[## Wireframes]

\\### \\\*\\\*Home\\\*\\\*

\![Home-wireframe](/assets/readme/homepage-browser.png)

\![Home-wireframe](/assets/readme/homepage-mobile.png)

\\### \\\*\\\*Rules\\\*\\\*

\![Rules page wireframe](/assets/readme/rules-browser.png)

\![Rules page wireframe](/assets/readme/rules-mobile.png)

\\### \\\*\\\*Game Screen\\\*\\\*

\![Game screen wireframe](/assets/readme/game-browser.png)
\![Game screen wireframe](/assets/readme/game-mobile.png)

\\\_\\\_\\\_

\\## Design

As Who Wants to be a Times table Millionaire is a product and service,
the web-page design shapes future brand recognition and styling. The
project\'s design springs from the ethos and values of Who Wants to be a
Millionaire, it is professional, engaging and fun, aiming to give
players the feeling that they will enjoy a new twist on a format that is
familiar to them. It also seeks to reassure the player that there is a
learning element to the game.

\\### Colour Scheme

\![Palette\](/assets/readme/colour-palette.png)

The conventional, modern, solid colour palette choice serves to engender
trust, academia and professionalism, whilst maintaining a modern feel.

\\#### \\\*\\\*Dark, Navy Blue\\\*\\\*

represent a strong background color to contrast with the other elements
on the page.

\\#### \\\*\\\*Double Spanish White\\\*\\\*

Golden color used for the badge and hover elements, gives the user the
impression of a quality product.

\\#### \\\*\\\*Sea Grape\\\*\\\*

Give the user the shadow/auror effect around the badge, creating depth
on the homescreen.

\\#### \\\*\\\*Alice Blue\\\*\\\*

Used for fonts, designed to contrast against the other darker colours.

[\\### Typography]{.mark}

\[Lato\](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Lato) was chosen for body
text as it is light and easy to read.

\\### Images

The images in this project were sourced from
\[Google.com\]\]([[https://www.google.co.uk]{.underline}](https://www.google.co.uk))
using a search that included images free to use with no rights
restrictions. They were specifically selected to correlate with the main
website colour palette and increase the aesthetic impact of the design.

\\### Visual Effects

\\#### Shadows

As the Home Page consists of multiple colourful overlapping blocks, it
was important to add volume and make the content easier to perceive so
the viewer\'s eye doesn\'t have to focus on understanding spatial
relationships between elements, which might be daunting. However, to
provide better performance on mobile devices, it was implemented only
for screens larger than 992px.

\\#### Logo and Page Headings Gradient

The product has a basic logo at the moment, which still needs further
work as it was made purely for the purposes of this project. Work needs
to be done to make it stand out further.

\\#### Buttons

Each button offers a similar growing effect described above combined
with a change of its background colour: it is black by default, and it
turns Double Spanish White when hovered over with a mouse. To provide
better performance on mobile devices, it was implemented only for
screens larger than 978px.

\\#### Navbar Hover effect

The navbar includes a hover-over effect to make the experience more
interactive and navigation more intuitive. When the user engages with
the link or hovers over the link, its background colour changes to Alice
Blue to subtly highlight the item without compromising legibility.

\\\_\\\_\\\_

\\# Features

\\## Existing Features

\\- \\\*\\\*Navigation bar\\\*\\\*

\![navbar\](/assets/readme/navbar.png)

Each page has a full responsive navigation bar at the top. It includes
the [Logo]{.mark} (which is a link to the Home page) and the links to
Home and game pages. It retains an identical layout throughout the
website across all devices to ensure simple and intuitive navigation.
The Navbar will allow the user to reach any section of the website from
any point on the website without unnecessary steps and using browser
navigation buttons.

For mobile devices, it transforms into a compact \"hamburger menu\".
This dropdown menu features the same items, displayed as a column on a
semi-transparent background.

\\- \\\*\\\*Hero image\\\*\\\*

\![heroimage\](/assets/readme/heroimage.png)

This section is the first thing the user sees opening each page, it is
an eye-catching image for aesthetical stimulation, which also helps to
deliver the page\'s semantics as visual associations are commonly very
strong. On the Home page, the image gives the use a familiar image to
hook into, which uses their prior knowledge of the TV show to give them
context about how the game might function.

\\- \\\*\\\*Why Choose Us section\\\*\\\*

\![whychooseus\](/assets/readme/whychooseus.png)

The ethos section will introduce the user to the concept of Pocket
Tutor, as it is slightly different to the usual way tutoring works. The
user will be introduced to the concept, given a little preview of the
benefits of signing up to Pocket Tutor and invited to learn more by
accessing the sign up page, which will book a call with the Sales Team.

\\- \\\*\\\*Benefits of Online Tutoring section\\\*\\\*

\![onlinebenefits\](/assets/readme/benefitsofonline.png)

Often, clients will choose in-person tutoring over online tutoring, this
section explains the benefits of choosing online tutoring. This was
deliberately presented as a video, as it reassures clients that there is
a human aspect to the service. By one of the tutors presenting the
benefits, potential clients are also reassured that the people working
with their children have the correct experience.

\\-

\\\*\\\*Our Events\\\*\\\*

\![events\](/assets/readme/ourevents.png)

This section is designed to promote the events that clients can attend,
as part of their subscription, to support their children with enjoying
learning. The events ensure that users have a reason to return to the
site, in order to check the dates of events running, and to sign up to
them. It gives the user increased value for their subscription and helps
to widen the potential base of clients as some events will periodically
be made free to attend.

\\- \\\*\\\*Footer\\\*\\\*

\![footer\](/assets/readme/footer.png)

The Footer contains the links to the social media and allows the user to
continue engagement with the company on various platforms.

\\- \\\*\\\*Success Stories page\\\*\\\*

\![successstories\](/assets/readme/successstories.png)

This page contains a more in-depth explanation of the features of the
subscription and sets out the products that clients will have access to.
It also reiterates the concept of choosing online, rather than in-person
tutoring and how this will benefit their family life. It also features
some success stories from current users who have been supported by
Pocket Tutor. This has been included to promote the services provide and
to provide 'real-life' accounts of how the product has helped their
children. In order to create a database of potential clients, users can
sign up to receive a free resource at the bottom of the page. This
serves as a way increase subscriptions to the site and also for users to
see an example of the resources they would have access to.

[\\- \\\*\\\*Signup page\\\*\\\*]{.mark}

\![signup\](/assets/readme/contactus.png)

This page will allow the user to sign up to Pocket Tutor and subscribe
to the service/product. The page contains the form, where the user will
be asked to submit their full name and email address and to give a brief
explanation of the areas that their child needs support with.

\\## Responsive layout

The site is designed to be flexible, fluid, responsive and aesthetically
enjoyable on all screen sizes and resolutions starting from 378px. To
ensure better performance on mobile devices, mobile versions (smaller in
size with different aspect ratios) most of the hero images are in a
smaller image format. It was considered necessary because the images
play a significant role in delivering the semantics of the website and
providing the intended user experience.

\![Responsiveness testing results:\]
\[Excel\](/assets/readme/responsivenesstesting.xlsx), \[Excel\]\]

\\## Future Considerations

Additional pages will need to be created to house the code to allow
users to play the same game, based on other times tables.

Adaptions will need to be made to the code so that the random numbers
generated for the answer options is not replicated in the same question.

Moving forward, it would improve the user experience if the levels of
the game were organised in a hierarchical manner, so that the user would
need to attain a certain score before the next level (times table) was
unlocked. This would increase the challenge and give users even more
reason to return to the game.

\\\_\\\_\\\_

\\# Technologies

\\- HTML to accomplish the structure of the website.

\\- CSS to style the website.

\\- \[Codeanywhere\]( https://app.codeanywhere.com/) IDE to develop the
website.

\\- \[GitHub\](https://GitHub.com/) to host the source code and GitHub
Pages to deploy and host the live site.

\\- Git to provide version control (to commit and push code to the
repository).

\\- \[FontAwesome\](https://fontawesome.com/) v5.15.1 Icons.

\\- \[Google Fonts\](https://fonts.google.com/) for typography.

\\- \[Google Chrome Dev
Tools\](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools) for
debugging, inspecting pages\' elements and testing layout.

\\- \[TinyJPG\](https://tinyjpg.com/) to optimise images for readme.

\\- \[Favicon.cc\](https://www.favicon.cc/) to create the website
favicon.

\\- \[Coolors\](https://coolors.co/image-picker) to source colour
palette from image.

\\- \[Balsamiq\](https://balsamiq.com/wireframes/) to design wireframes.

\\- \[Techsini\](https://tecnisih.com) to create the Mockup image in
this README.

\\- Google Chrome\'s
\[Lighthouse\](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse) to
assess accessibility.

\\- \[Screen Reader for Google
Chrome\](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/screen-reader-for-google/nddfhonnmhcldcbmhbdldfpkbfpgjoeh/related?hl=en)
to assess screen-reader accessibility.

\\- Toptal
\[Colorfilter\](https://www.toptal.com/designers/colorfilter/) to assess
colour-blind accessibility.

\\- \[W3C HTML Markup Validator\](https://validator.w3.org/) to validate
HTML code.

\\- \[W3C Jigsaw CSS Validator\](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/)
to validate CSS code.

\\- Code Institute\'s Gitpod Template to generate the workspace for the
project.

\\\_\\\_\\\_

\\# Testing

\\## User Story Testing

\![User Testing results:\] \[Excel\](/assets/readme/usertesting.xlsx),
\[Excel\]\]

\\## Feature Testing

All Features were tested manually, find the results below.

The website was tested in three browsers: Chrome, Firefox and Safari on
Desktops, tablets and multiple mobile devices (macOS and Android).

\![Features\\\_testing\](/assets/readme/milestoneonetesting.png)

\![Features Testing results:\]
\[Excel\](/assets/readme/Milestoneonetesting.xlsx), \[Excel\]\]

\\## Automated Testing

1\\. \\\*\\\*\[W3 Markup Validation\](https://validator.w3.org/) - HTML
Validation\\\*\\\*

All pages were run through HTML Validator. No errors were detected.

2\\. \\\*\\\*\[W3 Jigsaw\](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/) - CSS
Validation\\\*\\\*

CSS Stylesheet was run through CSS Validator. No errors were detected.

3\\. \\\*\\\*\[Google
Lighthouse\](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse)\\\*\\\*

\\\*\\\*Home Page\\\*\\\*

Mobile

\![Mobile Home\](/assets/readme/home-mobile.png)

Desktop

\![Desktop Home\](/assets/readme/home-desktop.png)

\\\*\\\*Success Stories Page\\\*\\\*

Mobile

\![Mobile Success Stories\](/assets/readme/success-stories-mobile.png)

Desktop

\![Desktop Success Stories\](/assets/readme/success-stories-desktop.png)

\\\*\\\*Signup Page\\\*\\\*

Mobile

\![Mobile Signup\](/assets/readme/signup-mobile.png)

Desktop

\![Desktop Signup\](/assets/readme/success-stories-desktop.png)

\\## Accessibility Testing

\\### Screen Reader for Goggle Chrome

The website was tested with \[Screen Reader for Goggle
Chrome\](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/screen-reader/kgejglhpjiefppelpmljglcjbhoiplfn?hl=en).
No issues arose.

\\### Toptal Colorfilter

The website was tested with Toptal
\[Colorfilter\](https://www.toptal.com/designers/colorfilter/) to make
sure it is accessible for colour-blind users. No accessibility issues
were detected.

\[Result preview
1\](https://www.toptal.com/designers/colorfilter?orig_uri=https://mattjones444.github.io/Code-Institute/&process_type=protan)

\[Result preview
2\](https://www.toptal.com/designers/colorfilter?orig_uri=https://mattjones444.github.io/Code-Institute/success-stories.html&process_type=protan)

\[Result preview
3\](https://www.toptal.com/designers/colorfilter?orig_uri=https://mattjones444.github.io/Code-Institute/signup.html&process_type=protan)

\\\_\\\_\\\_

\\# Deployment

This project was hosted on Github. A repository was created by:

1\\. Navigate to Github.com and login.

2\\. On the left-hand sidebar, click the \'New\' button.

3\\. Name the repository and click on the \'Create Repository\' button.

During the creation of the project, the \'git add .\', \'git commit
-m\', \'git push\' and \'git pull\' commands were used.

This project was deployed to GitHub pages. The steps to deploy are as
follows:

1\\. Log into GitHub.

2\\. Select \`codeinstitute\` from the list of repositories.

3\\. Select \`Settings\` From the Repositories sub-headings.

4\\. In the left side menu select \`Pages\`.

5\\. Click on the link labelled \'Visit Site\' to go to the live
deployed page.

Due to issues with Codeanywhere during the creation of this project, I decided to move to use Replit as the cloud IDE. Due to this, the project was originally linked to a separate Github repo, which can be found at https://github.com/Mattjones444/TimesTablesTest.git

\\\_\\\_\\\_

\\# Credits

\\## Media

\\- all images were sourced from Canva.com

\\- favicon.ico was created by me.

\\## Code

\\- Implementation of Flexbox and Grid was assisted by \[CSS
Tricks\](https://css-tricks.com).

\\- Code snippet for the links hover effect is taken from \[CSS
Tricks\](https://css-tricks.com/css-link-hover-effects/) and modified.

\\- Code snippet for the \'Why Choose Us\' section was inspired by code
from CodeInsitute and modified.

\\- Guidance on HTML attributes and common conventions were obtained
from \[W3Schools\](https://www.w3schools.com/) and \[Mozilla\'s Web
Documentation\](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/).

\\- Understanding of shadows was obtained from
\[W3Schools\](https://www.w3schools.com/).

\\## Acknowledgements

I would like to thank my mentor, Ronan McClelland, for his guidance and
invaluable advice and sense of humour.
